README.md, before:

# tiny_engine

## Info

Libraries Used:
- [OpenGL](https://www.opengl.org/) by Khronos Group
- [GLAD](https://glad.dav1d.de/) by David Herberth
- [GLFW](https://www.glfw.org/)
- [miniaudio](https://github.com/mackron/miniaudio) by David Reid
- [GLtext](https://github.com/vallentin/glText) by Christian Vallentin 
- [imgui](https://github.com/ocornut/imgui) ImGui by Omar
- [metadesk](https://dion.systems/metadesk) Metadesk by Dion Systems

Features/Included Implementations:
- type reflection/metadata system
- Postprocessing
- Job System (multithreading)
- deterministic randomness
- sprite rendering
- spritesheet parsing/animating
- .obj file parsing/mesh rendering
- particle system
- 2d and 3d vector shape drawing (squares, circles, lines, spheres, cubes)
- .obj loading/rendering (w/material support)
- shadow mapping
- skybox
- postprocessing
- Profiling with chrome://tracing api
- Shader hot reloading & #include parser
- custom arena allocator
- custom dynamic array type
- compile-time reflection / type metadata generation system (backed by Metadesk)


Written with this engine:  
[Part Of The Pack](https://faultypine.itch.io/part-of-the-pack)  
![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/53064235/211900902-6c979f44-357a-4449-adf0-40598d9a7edb.png)  
Simple nature scene I used to implement & test 3D features  
![Screenshot 2023-04-26 235502](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/53064235/234755544-509599a3-1df1-4656-bcd0-6be7c841b4fb.png)


QuadTree Implementation:  

https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/53064235/216891116-b9521259-7010-4fa0-bd52-3d54e71d830e.mp4  

Outline/Sketch Effect  

https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/53064235/232272366-69ce9e2f-c13b-4db3-8781-e4ad967f1b2d.mp4  
  



### TODO:
- Shader refactor
    - have shaders own their own copies of all their uniforms
        - this way we can tell a shader to "activate" and it'll use() and 
            assign to all it's uniforms automatically, and we can then only setUniform outside the shader impl
            when uniforms change
    - implement global UBOs that apply to *all* shaders for Camera data and Lighting data
        making a broad assumption/decision that all shaders may want access to lighting data. I think this is reasonable at the moment
        this would also entail our GlobalShaderState having some sort of API where we could modify UBO data since Shaders don't "own" that data
API would be used like

```C
// init with shader paths (would compile shaders, and bind UBOs)
Shader shader = Shader(vsPath, fsPath);

// every game tick...
// copies x into the shader's owned uniforms list, or if "myuni" doesn't already exist, add it
// notably, the change with this system is that setUniform no longer does opengl calls.
// it just copies the uniform or adds it to the map. All opengl uniform setting happens when we .Use() the shader
shader.setUniform("myuni", x); 

// in drawing code
shader.Use(); // uses itself and sets all owned uniforms, also refreshes UBO data
model.Draw(shader, ....);

// if you wanted to change data in the UBO, like camera data...
GlobalShaderState::setUBOData(...); // what would this look like?

```



- Resource system
    - load from filesystem
    - store things like Shader, Mesh, Model, etc
    - allow access to these things through ids
- "entities"/serialize objects... 
    - entities are an int ID (and a pointer to the thing that manages them?)
        - could then use an entity to get all entities like that one...
        - struct with array of some type, each entity contains a pointer back to that array
        - or some way to reverse-lookup an ID to an entity type array
    - use rel pointers/arrays to make everything one big blob?
- growable-fixed-vector datatype (fixed mem of certain size, when exceeds transition to heap)
- better grass sway w/distortion texture to emulate wind better
- Renderer
    - Centralized system that takes in draw commands. At end of frame draws all requests and can
        do pre-processing on those commands like batching
- PBR
- HDR/Tonemapping & Bloom
- Scene graph/frustum culling 
    - https://learnopengl.com/Guest-Articles/2021/Scene/Scene-Graph
    - https://learnopengl.com/Guest-Articles/2021/Scene/Frustum-Culling
- Space partitioning
    - OctTree (?)
    - BVH
        - raycasting
- animation
    - basic skeletal
    - IK
- get linux build on feature parity
- Event system
- Portals! (And utilizing that to make "non-euclidean" spaces)
- 3D World Wrapping (I.E. Manifold garden)
- (Visualizing) L-Systems



## Personal Notes:
- OSX Retina Screen 1/4 render bug:
    http://disq.us/p/1osvm46: "For OSX retina device users, you may have to double the screen height and width when you create a framebuffer. Otherwise when you want to draw the screen using a framebuffer, some weird thing may occur (like I found only 1/4 of the previous content is rendered on the screen, which is the left corner).
    The reason of this might be that OSX uses 4 pixels to represent one under retina display. And GLFW aware of this problem while some other functions do not. So when you create a 800 x 600 window, it might actually be a 1600 x 1200 window..."

- MTL File Format:
Ka: specifies ambient color     values between 0 and 1 for the RGB components.
Kd: specifies diffuse color
Ks: specifies specular color
Ke: emissive coefficient (rgb emission color)
Ns: focus of specular highlights. normally range from 0 to 1000, with a high value resulting in a tight, concentrated highlight.
Ni: defines the optical density (aka index of refraction) values can range from 0.001 to 10. A value of 1.0 means that light does not bend as it passes through an object.
d: (dissolve) specifies alpha (0 = fully transparent, 1 = fully opaque)

Commit message:

[Shapes3D]: draw wire shapes, draw & generate spheres (added par_shapes lib). GlobalShaderState now contains one mapping shader id -> internal shader data

README.md, after:

# tiny_engine

## Info

Libraries Used:
- [OpenGL](https://www.opengl.org/) by Khronos Group
- [GLAD](https://glad.dav1d.de/) by David Herberth
- [GLFW](https://www.glfw.org/)
- [miniaudio](https://github.com/mackron/miniaudio) by David Reid
- [GLtext](https://github.com/vallentin/glText) by Christian Vallentin 
- [imgui](https://github.com/ocornut/imgui) ImGui by Omar
- [Assimp](https://github.com/assimp/assimp) 
- [metadesk](https://dion.systems/metadesk) Metadesk by Dion Systems
- [Bullet](https://github.com/bulletphysics/bullet3) Bullet by BulletPhysics


## Installing Dependencies

This project is currently built and maintained for windows. [vcpkg](https://vcpkg.io/en/) is recommended for installing dependencies

Assimp: `vcpkg install assimp`
GLFW: `vcpkg install glfw`
Bullet: `vcpkg install bullet3`

TODO: scan for dependencies before generating ninja build. 
Make this a bit nicer 

## Features/Included Implementations
- type reflection/metadata system
- Postprocessing
- Job System (multithreading)
- deterministic randomness
- sprite rendering
- spritesheet parsing/animating
- .obj file parsing/mesh rendering
- particle system
- 2d and 3d vector shape drawing (squares, circles, lines, spheres, cubes)
- .obj loading/rendering (w/material support)
- shadow mapping
- skybox
- postprocessing
- Profiling with chrome://tracing api
- Shader hot reloading & #include parser
- custom arena allocator
- custom dynamic array type
- compile-time reflection / type metadata generation system (backed by Metadesk)


Written with this engine:  
[Part Of The Pack](https://faultypine.itch.io/part-of-the-pack)  
![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/53064235/211900902-6c979f44-357a-4449-adf0-40598d9a7edb.png)  
Simple nature scene I used to implement & test 3D features  
![Screenshot 2023-04-26 235502](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/53064235/234755544-509599a3-1df1-4656-bcd0-6be7c841b4fb.png)


QuadTree Implementation:  

https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/53064235/216891116-b9521259-7010-4fa0-bd52-3d54e71d830e.mp4  

Outline/Sketch Effect  

https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/53064235/232272366-69ce9e2f-c13b-4db3-8781-e4ad967f1b2d.mp4  
  



### TODO:
- Shader refactor
    - ~~have shaders own their own copies of all their uniforms~~
    - implement global UBOs that apply to *all* shaders for Camera data and Lighting data
API would be used like

```C
// init with shader paths (would compile shaders, and bind UBOs)
Shader shader = Shader(vsPath, fsPath);

// every game tick...
// copies x into the shader's owned uniforms list, or if "myuni" doesn't already exist, add it
// notably, the change with this system is that setUniform no longer does opengl calls.
// it just copies the uniform or adds it to the map. All opengl uniform setting happens when we .Use() the shader
shader.setUniform("myuni", x); 

// in drawing code
shader.Use(); // uses itself and sets all owned uniforms, also refreshes UBO data
model.Draw(shader, ....);

// if you wanted to change data in the UBO, like camera data...
GlobalShaderState::setUBOData(...); // what would this look like?

```
further niceness:
allow shaders to take in a lambda when initializing them
which defines how to set their uniforms

- Bullet
- par_shapes
- ImGuizmo
- Resource system
    - load from filesystem
    - store things like Shader, Mesh, Model, etc
    - allow access to these things through ids
- "entities"/serialize objects... 
    - entities are an int ID (and a pointer to the thing that manages them?)
        - could then use an entity to get all entities like that one...
        - struct with array of some type, each entity contains a pointer back to that array
        - or some way to reverse-lookup an ID to an entity type array
    - use rel pointers/arrays to make everything one big blob?
- growable-fixed-vector datatype (fixed mem of certain size, when exceeds transition to heap)
- better grass sway w/distortion texture to emulate wind better
- Renderer
    - Centralized system that takes in draw commands. At end of frame draws all requests and can
        do pre-processing on those commands like batching
- PBR
- HDR/Tonemapping & Bloom
- Scene graph/frustum culling 
    - https://learnopengl.com/Guest-Articles/2021/Scene/Scene-Graph
    - https://learnopengl.com/Guest-Articles/2021/Scene/Frustum-Culling
- Space partitioning
    - OctTree (?)
    - BVH
        - raycasting
- animation
    - basic skeletal
    - IK
- get linux build on feature parity
- Event system
- Portals! (And utilizing that to make "non-euclidean" spaces)
- 3D World Wrapping (I.E. Manifold garden)
- (Visualizing) L-Systems



## Personal Notes:
- OSX Retina Screen 1/4 render bug:
    http://disq.us/p/1osvm46: "For OSX retina device users, you may have to double the screen height and width when you create a framebuffer. Otherwise when you want to draw the screen using a framebuffer, some weird thing may occur (like I found only 1/4 of the previous content is rendered on the screen, which is the left corner).
    The reason of this might be that OSX uses 4 pixels to represent one under retina display. And GLFW aware of this problem while some other functions do not. So when you create a 800 x 600 window, it might actually be a 1600 x 1200 window..."

- MTL File Format:
Ka: specifies ambient color     values between 0 and 1 for the RGB components.
Kd: specifies diffuse color
Ks: specifies specular color
Ke: emissive coefficient (rgb emission color)
Ns: focus of specular highlights. normally range from 0 to 1000, with a high value resulting in a tight, concentrated highlight.
Ni: defines the optical density (aka index of refraction) values can range from 0.001 to 10. A value of 1.0 means that light does not bend as it passes through an object.
d: (dissolve) specifies alpha (0 = fully transparent, 1 = fully opaque)
