src/types/refl.md, before:


---------------------------------
# Metadesk reflection system notes:

type_metadata.c and type_metadata.h contain the actual code for generating 
the output .c and .h files that contain our generated types


-----------------------------



find structs
enumerate fields & spit them out as-is
base default values(?) - default ctors? Or maybe all default ctors memset self to 0
#include in mdesk files


uses of reflection that need to be supported:
- enumerate fields
	- when parsing struct, also add the struct into a map of struct type -> DescribedType which holds name of struct and all it's members info (name/type/size/offset)
- when parsing struct, we are building a DescribedType struct. This should be a global. There is only one definition of any of these types, and you should be able to use that global definition to check types against each other
- can get info about some member of some struct: get describedType of your struct with GetTypeInfo, then find the MemberInfo by either indexing into the fields list with offsetof or using some kind of cached mapping of fields? Search by name ( :/ )?
- inheritence? Would just be marking one DescribedType as being a child and give some sort of ID as the parent. When spitting it into the file just slap the parent name there... don't need to worry about much else.
- With this kind of system, I think member functions won't be supported. They could for sure.... but I like the C-ness of that and it's one less thing to worry about. (Did D4 type system allow non-default member funcs? I don't rlly remember seeing stuff other than SetToDefaults and whatnot)

GetTypeInfo(type) -> DescribedType

Commit message:

save work on MD Reflection. Basic impl in, starting work on include directives next

src/types/refl.md, after:


---------------------------------
# Metadesk reflection system notes:

type_metadata.c and type_metadata.h contain the actual code for generating 
the output .c and .h files that contain our generated types

-----------------------------

## TODO:

- GENERATE multiple files after parsing - move toward all work being done *per-file* (parse, equip, write)
- #include in mdesk files
	- how we gonna do this...
	- need to get the global state into a data type and use one of those per file
	- question is: 
	- do we parse all files at once, THEN equip all types, THEN write to files? like in phases?
		- if we do this, would still need some seperation of what goes into what file for the writing phase...
		- if there's seperataion info like that might as well go all the way...?
	- or do we parse, equip, write for a single file?
		- make sure each file operates in it's own seperate arena for ez threading
		- easy to multithread/jobify
	- now that i wrote them down, it's very clear to me the second option is what I want to do. Yay!
- base default values(?) - default ctors? Or maybe all default ctors memset self to 0
